From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist and
Scott Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing show number three 19
recorded live Thursday, May 17th, 2012. Support
for Hansel minutes is provided
by Tellerik offering the best
in developer tools and support
online@telerikdotcomandbyfranklin.net training developers to work
smarter and now offering gesture
pack a powerful gesture, recording
and recognition system for Microsoft
connect for windows developers details
at gesture, ptak.com. In this
episode, Scott talks with bare
Tuneday Thurston about his book,
how to be black. Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman. This
is another episode of Hansel
minutes and I'm here today
with bare attuned day. How
are you sir? Hansel minutes.
I love it. Hansel today.
I'm good. Bear tonight. Marijuana.
Tuna does not seem like
that. Hard of a name.
It isn't four syllables. It's
simpler than encyclopedia, but we
were over at another location
earlier. Yes. And you introduced
yourself to a number of
people who immediately, as one
says their name, the other
person repeats their name. Oh,
baritone Scott, Scott bear today.
What, what happened? I ran
into a very lazy person
who assumed that he couldn't
say my name rather than
actually trying to say it.
And, and then made that
true because he already believed
it before it had happened.
So this was a person
with a very simple one
syllable monosyllabic name and, and
it wasn't fun. It wasn't
a nice person as I
kind of shut down in
the moment because I've had
a bunch of people over
the years, you know, try
to assign me different names.
I'm going to call you
Barry. I used to be,
he said he was gonna
call you B, right? Like
I just met you. You
are no longer you, you
are the thing that I
prefer you to be. Yes.
I'm going to own a
piece of you in terms
of at least how you
were addressed, how you might
be referred, prefer to be
referred to. So he was
an annoying person. He was
the worst that I've had
in a while. I've had
people who know, basically, if
you just give a little
patience with people, like, look,
it sounds different. And I
get that difference. It's a
scary thing for some people,
even when it comes to
just saying a name, but
try it, right. It's like,
try the beats. You might
like beats, you know, try
seeing the world from a
different angle. You might actually
like it. And so in
this case he was not
interested. He didn't have an
open mind. And so he
kind of shut down, which
I was like, okay, I'll
shut down. I don't need
you in my life. I'll
be fine. I'll probably be
better for this interaction not
having happened. And I think,
you know, he would be
too, in fact, cause I
think it's probably his, he's
hurting a little bit inside
and all of this within
the scope of like a
32nd interaction and the way
it was, it was, I,
we had captured it. You
know, there'll be a great
little scene. It would have
been like We could have
had like some awkward actor,
like Hugh grant or somebody.
And then the camera would
like, And that's what he
did. It's a little microcosm
of a lot of other
larger issues and problems because
it wasn't that he couldn't
do it. He can Era
Tuneday bare bear. Say that
5,000 times a day, tune
iTunes day, it's attached to
every day of the week.
So it is empirically simple,
but it's different. And he
was like different. I got
to go. I don't have
space for difference in my
life. And that fear of
the unexperienced and the unwillingness
to try maybe for fear
that you would fail at
it, maybe because you're just
not interested. Maybe because you're
so comfortable with how and
where you are that you
don't feel like you need
to bother. I feel like
I'm reading a lot into
this dudes unwilling to say
my name, but there are
people like him out there
who never have to say
that name, like everyone in
there, his life is Bob,
Jim, Dan, Steve Frank. And
that becomes the easy thing.
And you meet a baritone
day, you meet a Kwame,
you meet a, I mean,
these are different, not hard
but different. And it's like,
Oh, what do they call
you for short? We just
met dude. And you're already
trying to define me something
other than what I am.
And as I'm out, there's
a level of privilege, much
as well as annoyance embedded
into all that. But the
unwillingness to just walk through
the door, you might like
a process, bro. I liked
what you said about trying
new things because we went
to lunch and I had
a salad. There was a
place I'd never been before,
but honestly I didn't have
the energy or the emotional
wherewithal to like have calamari
or whatever. Yeah. But you
said, if this is my
last meal, what would I
have? Yeah. I had this
squid wrapped in cheese, wrapped
in fried bread and then
a burger with it with
basically brunch on top of
it. It was a burger
with a fried egg and
bacon. And I think a
village of some kind was
squeezed in there wrapped in
expensiveness. So it was, but
it was good. It was
delicious. And what I said
to the bartender, I like
giving people a chance to
like delight me. And especially
people who have an expertise
where I don't and bartenders
are those people. Servers can
be those people. Chefs certainly
are those people. Why do
you have a whole document
here? This menu? I don't
know it. This is my
first time here. Possibly my
last time here. Why do
I defer to your expertise?
At least for a shot
at winning me to something
new. And so I said,
look, I'm in town for
a day. As soon as
my last meal of the
day, what should I have
here? And did you notice
that he thought about it?
Yeah. He didn't just bust
out what they had a
lot of great he's like,
Oh, Oh, Oh. And there's
the cheaper way to do
that Is, you know, what's
popular here. Right. That's actually
what the web does. Right?
Right. It's like, Oh, this
is the leaderboard. These are
the highest ranking apps. These
are the highest ranking sales.
But if you prompt the
system with a little bit
of input, like it's, it's
not helpful. I think as
a server, as a bartender
for somebody like tell me
what I should have. It's
like, I don't know anything
about you. You know? I
don't even know if I
should be shortening your name
or not. We haven't gotten
to that level. But if
I gave you a little
story with bartenders, I give
him some, I here's what
I like. I know I
like whiskey I'm in the
mood for something smokey. Is
there something you'd like to
make that people don't ask
for often? And then they
are part of it. Now
it's less of a demand
than an opportunity. So that's
the high-minded theory of like
the way as that. Cool.
Yeah. I just had an
idea for a startup. Yeah.
As you're, as you're talking,
you walk by a restaurant
and there's like a 40
inch plasma turn sideways with
a leaderboard of like which
meal has the most upvotes
that day. Like in real
time, like, as people are
ordering, you're like seeing the
calamari or the squid move
its way up mule rank
meal, rank.com. We're going to
register that before we publish
this podcast, this is going
to be a thing it's
going to be thing. That's
a great idea. Or it
depends. And here's the hesitation
ranks, you know, have some
problems when they just, they
kind of genericize a bunch
of unique little community flavors.
And there's just like universal
list. But maybe within that
as a micro community, it's
something where it won't show
up or there's politics to
ranks where, you know, there's
some item on the menu
that, that restaurant really wants
to promote because a friend
of the chef helped make
it put up an item
to promoted items. You can
buy a trending topic on
this list. Sweet. From your
rank, you noted meal. I've
always had a problem with
upvotes and downvotes is that
you could go and see
something. This is like zero
points, but you don't know
if there's not a million
upvotes and a million downloads.
Well, you just expose the,
the vote count. Yeah. But
no, one's there. No, one's
done that though. Have you
just seen that anywhere? Trying
to think, let me read.
It has, has a votes.
I don't really have downloads
to. I can't remember. I
think I just have, I
can't remember up and then
slash And then YouTube has,
has like, Has been dumbed
down cause they YouTube shows
the net. Yeah, They do
exactly. They show a chart
and that was nice about
that is that the first
comment on every YouTube video
is like, who are the
three people who didn't like
this? You know what I
mean? It's always like a
baby, you know, Barton. And
then there's like three people
disliked. And then the first
question is like, who did
not like this? Yeah. Who
do you think? Why do
you hate my baby? So
we talked a couple of
years ago, but since then
you have published a book,
would it be fair to
say a bestselling book? It
would be, it would not
only be fair to be
accurate. Is it fair to
say it's a New York times
bestseller. It is also fair
and accurate. Yeah. And it
is called Gotta be black.
That's true. You are just
hitting it with the facts.
It's just the Wikipedia page.
And I haven't touched that,
so I can't verify it.
So you made this book
and the two questions I
have about the book first
I'm am not black. Right?
Although I have people in
my life are Why would
white people care about this
book? Oh, that is a
good question. First of all,
it's a funny book and
it's a good book. It's
a, well, not the Bible.
Good, but it is a,
it's a, it's a story.
The book is a memoir.
It's a memo, mostly it's
my coming of blackness. And
I have this navigation of
my life from childhood through
college punctuated along the way,
are these satirical lessons, how
to be the black, frail,
how to speak for all
black people. And I interview
a panel of expert black
folks, which is to say
black folks about what it
is to be black in
their labs. When did you
realize you were black? Have
you ever wished you weren't?
Can you swim very important
questions? And for the non-black
person, I think they will
be pleasantly surprised at how
much of their own experience
is reflected in this book,
which is in theory, not
about them at all because
black is the hack, right?
How to be is the
book. Black is the variable.
It's my variable. It's the
one I've been wearing for
a while. It's not the
sum of my experience, but
it's a very important part
of it. The how to
be is really where this
is at and the overall
lesson of the book, I'll
just give it away is
to find a way through
your life, to be yourself
and be comfortable and confident
in that and everything else,
not everything, but a lot
of other issues that might
be associated with parts of
your identity and an insecurity
around that fall away. So
it could be how to
be a woman. It could
be how to be gay.
It could be how to
be a dude. I chose
how to be black. That's
that's a really cool way
to put it. It's black
as a variable. Now, why
did you pick that variable?
I think the variable pick
me Scott. No, but I've
always wanted to say something
like I didn't choose the
variable. The variable chose me,
never been said before. It's
never been said, but I'm
thinking about, I could write
how to be. I could
be right. How to be
a guy, how to be
a programmer, how to be
white, how to be a
Northwestern or how to be
a Portlander, how to be
diabetic. Is that the first,
most important variable for you?
It, it is a very
important variable. It is occasionally
the first, depending on the
room I'm in. And, and
it's been a big part
of my definition and my
experiences. And I think not
just for me before the
country, in which it was
written, which is the United States of America,
there are some significant contributions
to that country's identity that
come out of black. Right.
And so, you know, the
book was also an attempt
to update some of the
possible representations of black in
this country, beyond the rank,
beyond those, the top five
black archetypes that might've been
on the LCD outside of
the window of America, right?
Oh, there's the thug, there's
the sassy black woman. There's
the welfare dude or whatever.
And so there's a lot
more to it than that.
My life represents a big
chunk of that lot more.
And so through the personal
and the humor, I thought,
well, let's try to tell
this story because I think
there's a lot of challenge,
struggle. Annoyance wrapped up in
black that doesn't have to
be there. It doesn't have
to be the first thing
on the list. A good
friend of mine on Twitter,
any Vinny made a great,
a great analysis while back
is in response to a
slate article. And she said,
black people are not a
monolith. And, and that, that
kind of sits with me
for a second because if
you meet, like you may,
if you're a white person
in America, depending on where
you live, you might have
like your black friend or
the three or four black
friends. And that might be
your black person, like in
the sense of that's the
archetype. Okay. And then you
find out that they love
star Wars or they're a
total nerd, or they're awkward,
like awkward black, awkward black
girl, ISA Ray. And then,
and then suddenly your perspective
is like, Oh, wait a
second. Black people are people.
Right. And, and, and while
we, and we have stereotypes
about all sorts of people,
like I might meet like
an Indian engineer that works
at Intel. And I might
assume that his wife is
Indian and they came here
and they're very formerly Indian.
And then I discovered that
his wife's black or that,
you know, he grew up
in, in Massachusetts or whatever
is, is stereotyping the primary
problem for black folks in
America right now that there
is just a, we got
you all figured out. I
don't, I don't know if
it's the primary problem. It
is the problem with the
root, from which all I
know that that's not like
oppression and frustration is a
problem, but it's the root
essence that you're being pigeonholed.
I think I have to
think more about it. I'm
not because I don't want
to, as I answered, I
may come to a conclusion,
but I don't want to
jump to and say, that's
it. Cause I'm not sure.
I do know that there
are consequences of the stereotypes
which go beyond inconvenience or
annoyance. And they go to
the global expectations of an
entire group of people. They
go to media representation and
thus ideas of self and
self worth and self value.
We internalize what we see
about ourselves in the world.
And if you only see
a certain version of yourself
that says you can do
these things and by implication,
none of these other things
that changes your dreams, that
changes, you know, what your
hopes are, that changes what
you might pursue and the
opposite of all that, which
you choose not to pursue.
And that's important. So having,
you know, the stereotypes are
a problem. Some of them
are based in reality, there
are sometimes just types, but
the oversimplification of what black
can be leads to some
significant challenges that are quite
important, if not the most
important challenges, A lot of
people, particularly white folks say,
well, why do we keep
talking about this? Why is
race an issue? The idea
that I don't see color.
And I, I spoke on
a black panel about a
panel of Blanton. Yeah, of
course. Yeah. Wisdom blisters. Ah,
nice. It's South by Southwest.
And, and one of the
things that I said in
the panel that I felt
good about was that there
is a sense of pie
chart, diversity that you can
put together, this pretty pie
chart, where you have like
the Latin girl and the
black guy and the white
guy with blonde hair and
the white girl with black,
you know, you have this
nice one, that's a statically
pleasing. So United colors of
Benetton ad. And it may
be aesthetically pleasing, but it
doesn't reflect kind of the
reality of what's going on
in the world there. And
then people kept saying, well,
I don't see color. And
I said, if you don't
see color, then you are
not seeing me. Right. I
do. I think the, you
know, the notion of colorblindness,
like the low notion or
the lotion we're talking about
black stuff, so let's change,
Right. You guys are taking
all the butters. Yeah. Yeah.
Coco, especially, but we'll work
with a lot of other
ones. So, you know, the
notion of a post racial
or colorblind society is naive.
And I think useless more
than it is. I don't,
I think it misses the
point. I think you skip
ahead and you skip over
the reality that there are
differences and that, that doesn't
have to be a problem,
but it can be acknowledged.
It can be included. It
can be part of how
you develop your products. I
think that's fine. But thing
I don't see color is
saying, I don't want to
do any work. And it's
saying, well, you know, rather
than I see color and
I disliked that color, no
one wants to be that
person. No one wants to
acknowledge that that person or
the clan doesn't want to
acknowledge that at this point,
there are, they're kind of
a joke. I shouldn't have
brought them other more for
performance. Let's say, let's say,
for example, you see someone
in a wheelchair. Yeah. Oh,
I don't see disabilities Still
just floating on his butt.
That is amazing If you
will. But if you don't
see a blind person as
being blind and you hand
them something and expect them
to take it without being
prompted, or you expect the
wheelchair guy to walk up
a set of stairs, it's
denying their, their experience, which
is not good. Which made
them interesting, like denying my
name is Barrington or giving
or giving me a piece
of cake. Yeah. Cause we
can't have that because it
might have high sugar. When
you were marketing this book,
I was in awe. And
I'm not just kind of
like kissing your butt because
you're here on the show.
But I mean like the
way that you marketed it
and your use of social
media, I thought was really
cool. Cause you ran it.
I felt like a political
campaign. Like you were running
for something, you ran unopposed.
Oh no, the world was
against me. So I wasn't
running against everyone. Can you
talk to me about how
you use some of the
technology and the social media
in the skills that you
developed while working previously at
the onion and digital and
digital media to promote this
book? Absolutely. One of the
first things I did and
you were right about the
political campaign. First of all,
that was my metaphor. And
it was in part because
of my, I have a
big political background. I grew
up in Washington, DC. I
campaign hard for press now,
president Obama and, and a
lot of facets of the
campaign. And the premise was
a, is fun. You know,
I just, I like applying
a conceit sometimes to the
things I do, some kind
of personality and overarching narrative
and it just made it
more interesting for me. Cause
I have to live this
day in and day out
and just be like, I
want to sell a book
is way less interesting than
a political, Well, I knew
you pissing people off because
you're like, if you don't
buy this book, you're racist
and that's hilarious. I think
some didn't get it. We'll
see it's First of all,
it's science. It's not me.
Okay. It's not, it's not
like I'm judging you for
not by the book. Science
has proven if you don't
buy my book, how to
be black available in all
formats, you are in fact
a racist. Now we can
work with them. You know,
there there's a program, right?
It's like gravity people. It's
just one of those things
that have to buy the
book, don't be racist or
acknowledge that you are, but
still stop living in the
shadows. Undocumented racists are, you
know, they're people too. So
I think though the political
thing was, I also wanted
to build something that was
more than just me. And
one of the less, I
took a lot of lessons
from politics in general, Obama
in particular, you know, here's
a dude who tapped into
an existing conversation, tapped in
effectively to an existing movement
change. We can do this,
but he didn't create that.
Right. He grabbed it, put
his name on it and
ran with it. Exactly. And
it's not, that's not, that's
not evil either. Like he
was the right person at
the time, right. To kind
of ride and promote that
wave. And similarly, so when
people were, you know, when
you're a successful politician, people
aren't just voting for you,
they see themselves in you,
they put their dreams in
the platform of your campaign.
And it's not just bullet
points. It's like, Oh, this
person, this party, this team
gets me. Right. I want
to ride with them. So
I want it to see
if I can get some
slice of that around this
book. Because if it's just
about me writing a book,
that's friends and family. Yeah.
And existing fans. But if
it's really about identity, if
it's about, let's take the
best seller list in a
new way. If it's about,
I want to be part
of something that changes the
way we talk about race
and identity in this country,
right? That's much more than
an ego boost to a
guy named bear today. This
is really interesting because we,
I have no doubt. We
have a diversity of listeners
and I have a diversity
of political opinions. And some
people who are listening, maybe
50% of them may have
shut down as soon as
you mentioned Obama, right? But
let's not talk about Obama
as a political, whether you
like him or not. The
concept is that he tapped
into an existing narrative as
story and made it his
own and rode that. And
whoever, whether it be Obama
or the next guy who
becomes president next, if they
succeed, they will have to
do the same thing. They
will have to, to feel
out what's happening on the,
on the streets in America,
what people are talking about
and get on and ride.
So you might that. Yeah.
That's, I mean, that's, that's
politics in general. You have
to understand where people are.
You have to convince them,
you can take them where
they want to be, But
also steer it. You don't
want to just simply ride
popular opinion and take them
the active part, right. Or
they want to be, or,
and in some bolder cases,
tell them where they should
be, but convince them that
they want it. So with
the book, one of the
things we did first was
to build a street team.
This is a virtual street
team and there was an
application process. We use Wolf,
oo, as our form building
software to get people in
the system. I wanted people
to feel like this book
was theirs. And I wanted
a core group of people
to really feel passionately about
that. I'm one person I
can get 20, 50, a
hundred around me who feel
and who are not just
black people, people around the
world. In fact, that is
more interesting. And so we
cast the net widely. I
went out on a lot
of digital media. Read-write web
wrote about it. I went
on this week in tech
and talked about it and
went on this weekend, blackness
or blacking it up, Ilan
James, his show and talked
about. So I hit tech
communities. I hit race communities.
I hit comedy blogs and
communities I'm doing this project
would love you to join.
We are trying to make
a bestseller. We were trying
to affect the conversation. And
once we got our crew
in and there was an
application in part, because I
wanted, if you can't fill
out an application, you're not
going to do all this
stuff because you want them
to represent you. This is
the person who's going to
knock on the door. This
is going to vote for
my candidate. This is my
field ops. Right. For every,
you know, we, we broke,
we had field ops was
the street team. We had
bundlers the high value donors,
right. Which are people identified
as like, you're going to
be able to convert a
hundred books, sales, whether you
buy them yourself or do
you get your company to
bring me there by whether
you can put me on
your TV show, you're in
that sort of elite crew.
So with the street team
that we use, we offered
them, you're gonna get the
book early. You are going
to get access to me.
Right. I'll do an email
blast just to you guys
every other week. What's going
on behind the scenes. How
are we going? What's happening
with the publisher started without
the Kickstarter. Yeah. We hacked
our own Kickstarter. We rolled
our own kicks in. Exactly.
And you are going to
we'll do video chats. And
so I used a vocal
as a video chat platform.
That's pretty lightweight works from
anywhere, web based fully. And
I would do the sessions
with the street team, just
taking questions. One of the
beauty that the technical beauties
of vocal over say something
more traditional like Ustream or
Skype is when, when people
are interacting with you, like
you producing a show, right?
I take questions. People can
submit a text question. And
if you type it in
the queue, I see the
backend. I pull in the
text question, split-screen me. And
the question typed up and
who submitted it. So now
you're seeing what question I'm
talking about. Even if you
jumped in, after the question
was asked, nice. I can
bring in people through, I'm
going to do that. And
the other beauty, and this
is the magic of it.
And I'm, I don't work
for vocal. I get no
money from them probably right.
And other people can do
this. It's not super a
novel, but they did at
first, as far as I
knew that whole video session
is bookmarked by the interactions,
by the questions I took.
So I get an indexed
link to each of those
segments. Well, I can shoot
that out later. I can
embed that I can send
it straight to YouTube, generics,
degenerated, realtime FAC. So the
street team, my goal for
the streets, he might have
very quantified goals for this
book. I want it to,
pre-sell a certain amount. I
want the street team to
convert these many. It didn't
work out that way. The
math didn't work in that
sense, but the street team
was valuable because they were
my beta. They were my
early tests. Microsoft, you have
a preferred developer network. They
were my MVPs and B.
They gave me more than
sales. They gave me intelligence
from the market. And so
I would do these video
chats every other week. And
they had read the book
and they had questions as
a woman in a white
woman in Arizona. And she's
like, well, I'm white. How
do I, how do I
talk about this book? And
we talked about it. And
that moment is on the
website. Now, like I'm a
white person. How do I
talk about this book? And
that's part of the FAQ,
but it's a video FAQ.
And you see it's a
real white person who asked
me about this and I
could go into that. So
that was a ton of
fun to get an early
warning system on what kind
of questions will be happening.
The other thing we did,
the first assignment read the
book, we sent them a
PDF. Talk about it over
Thanksgiving with your family, and
then report back to the
private Facebook group we've created
for the street team. Nice.
Because I wanted people to
talk to each other and
get to know each other
and like, Oh, your grandfather
said that we were thinking,
so did mine. Your kid
thought this, so did mine.
And that's an area I
don't control email list. I
control the video thing. I'm
still choosing, you know, timelines
of when people jump in
and out, the Facebook group
was kind of like, here's
your area talk amongst your,
That grandfather example is interesting
because it's like, I'll give
you a little insight into
white folks. Yeah. We don't
usually sit around and talk
about black folks and even
less so with old people.
But if you sit down
with your hundred year old
grandmother, you can get some
really interesting stories. My grandmother
is 96. Good for her.
And she, I guess I
discovered this after talking to
her about this topic was
kicked out of school in
1922 for dancing with a
black boy at a dance.
She needs to be on
the website. I had no,
no. Cause why would I
ever have this conversation? It
was just one of those
stories that you have a
million stories that I'm sure
she has where it's like,
Oh wow. I, you were
not only on the right
side of history, but like
40 years before that even
was something people thought about
being on the right side
of history. So that's something
interesting that I never thought
about. Like I'm imagining, like
that would be very strange,
uncomfortable thing for a bunch
of white people to say,
Oh, Hey, you know, it's
Thanksgiving dinner. And I bought
this book how to be
black. Let's talk about it.
But some really interesting discussions
and narratives will come out
of that. The thing was
to give those folks an
opportunity to bring it up
in their context, in their
voice and from their experience.
So I didn't give them
like, these are the sales
points you make exactly pitching
how to be black to
your network. That's a little
too heavy hand in artificial.
Read the book, whatever you
find in it that resonates
with you. Talk about that.
I just want to know
what that was. So share
the intelligence gathering and non
stovepiping of that was very
important. We also, it's something
I haven't talked much about.
We have all versions of
the book. There's a hard
cover print analog, you know,
version, right? The dead tree
edition of the, the atomic
version and then their various
electronic versions. I have the
audio book. So I interviewed
this panel. I shot that
on a, with a very
expensive two camera rig. It
was an iPhone for us
and my flip minnow HD.
Nice. And I used the
zoom audio recorder that we're
talking about right now. I
had that as my clean
audio source. Nice. And then
I had a video editor
bill Cammack Oh, I know
bill. Yeah. Bill's a great
guy. And be award winning
video editor to help us
chop that up and create
moments out of these hours
of footage, seven people roughly
an hour each I'm not
just gonna throw out seven
hours of video and of
course edit it. So we
splice things together along on
this question of when did
you first realize you were
black? And we pulled some
things from w Kamau bell
and some things from Sheryl
County and some things from
Derrick Ashong and it was
a beautiful thing. And then
we put that out and
ask the public. When did
you first realize you were
whatever you are? We all
say there's a white person
that we interviewed on this
panel, Christian Lander from stuff
I remember. Yeah. I didn't
even think about it. See,
we don't think about that
either. Yeah. Now you just
made me think about when
I realized that I was
white. There you go. Yeah.
So that I remember now.
So, so there was, but
the technology was key to
promoting and prompting that question.
And even if you didn't
read the book, you can
still come across that on
the website and be a
part of this world that
we're building this tower that
we're fully building out, that
we're adding to the world
existed. So that was one
thing. And having the audio
book version, I read myself
then dropped in the audio
of my interview subjects instead
of me reading all their
parts. That to me, that'd
be weird. So when you
listen to the book, you're
hearing me tell the stories
of my life, which is
the best way to hear
it right. And you're hearing
people tell their lives in
their voices, in their homes.
So was it the original
audio when you got the
actual ones from the zoom,
Add that to the engineers
at a, at Harper audio
and they, and they put
it together and it sounds
fantastic. And then we did
this enhanced ebook. And, and
so what that means is
a lot less than what
I'd hoped it would mean.
So enhanced ebook. I'm like,
Oh, cause we can, we
can, obviously you should embed
some videos. We can have
some interactive features. I wanted
to put like a quiz
around the, how black are
you chapter and have people
sort of play around and
you know, ebook platforms are
so diverse. You have to
play to the least common
denominator because you're not gonna
make a custom version for
the iPad and then another
one for color and another
one for the Kindle and
then the other devices out
there, the Sonys, et cetera.
So we could basically put
images in which we did,
we could put audio in.
And so there's a point
where there's a speech that
I delivered as a child
called the U S propaganda
machine. I was a very
young militant kid and I
turned it. It was basically
a speech from me to
all black America explaining how
the white man had oppressed
us through media misrepresentation. How
old are you at this
point in 12? It's brilliant.
But I performed that speech
in front of a live
audience in Boston two years
ago. Got great audio, jot
that in awesome. Some video.
And then we hacked the
hyperlinking in the book. So
you can throw some links
in. And I, what I
wanted to do is embed
tweets in the book so
that you could retweet from
within the book, like these
are the things we should
able to do now, cause
we're already doing them. And
the book is a step
backwards in that, on the
analog side. But on the
elect, the electronic side, you
should be able to do
it. So we put links
and built our own site
just to hold these tweets.
And then, so when you
click on those links, you
get to, and then we
can change it. Sometimes we
throw an image in there.
Sometimes, sometimes it's just a
pull quote or something, and
we've been able to play
around with that, that there's
no CMS for that, that
the publishers around or that
Apple gives you access to.
We had to build a
site for it and then
throw in some code. And
I'm not a great coder.
I had my campaign manager
who was overall. I could
read it, build some of
that stuff out, but we
have a lot of fun
with it, with the tech
there. I think those were
some of the more novel
uses of tech in the
book. And then here's the,
here's a, this actually I
think a lot of your
people will have some fun
with screen-sharing. There's a site
called join.me, which lets people
view remotely your computer screen.
And it's largely, I think
for tech support and product
demos, I use it all
the time. Yeah. So I
used it to write my
book in public and I
did what I called a
live writing exercise and a
writer friend of mine on,
on Gira us. He gets
credit because he suggested I
do this. Always have to
mention his name when I
bring it up. And I
didn't think it was a
good idea until I argued
against it and then convince
myself the opposite. All right,
I'll give it a shot.
So I fired up the
software, created the link, put
it out just on Google
plus first I think it
was like the, my newest
community. Let me just test
that. Just hang out. And,
and it worked. It worked
well. Wow. And what happened
is people saw a chapter.
Yeah. You go from zero
to thousands of words. I
wrote it in a couple
of hours and met a
couple of hundred people coming
in. Right. The feature remotely
control. My computer was invoked
quite often by folks who
thought that I was crowdsourcing
the book. Oh, let me
write something about, that was
my question. Like, are you
just alone with people with
a hundred people over your
shoulder? That's that's, that's what
it was no back channel.
So, and then there wasn't,
there was a chat room.
So this is what I
had to learn, how to
manage, you know, one people
thought I was inviting them
to participate actively in writing
the book. I'm still the
author. It's still my book.
That's not what's happening here,
but you can observe and
talk to each other. And
so in the chat room,
once people realized like I
wasn't engaging because I'm writing,
it's called live writing. Not
just me talking. Right. People
started talking to each other.
Yeah. How do you feel
better today? I don't know.
What do you think of
this? Oh, this is really
interesting. They're correcting my typos
real time. They're asking me
to scroll up so they
can see, you know, what
came before and they're commenting
on the novelty of actually
seeing the writing process, which
you never see from someone
one else's perspective. You see
the finished product. You may
see someone in the cafe
on a computer, but you
don't know what's actually happening
on their screen. And because
it's, you're capturing the screen,
not just the writing software,
you see me cut to
Google maps, which I did
often in writing the book
for street view. So I
could re walk the streets
of my neighborhood as I
wrote about those childhood memories
and, or going to Wikipedia.
So I took a trip
to Senegal as a kid
left a deep impression. And
I remember learning about Leopold
singer and a former president.
The first, I think non-French
min to be admitted to
LA Academy Francaise, which is
the official keeper of the
French language. It was such
a big deal for a
black African man to join
that and credited with creating
Negritude as a philosophy and
way of thinking about what
blackness was. I didn't remember
all that detail Wikipedia has
that. So I'm going in,
I'm educating myself as well
as whoever would read this
book eventually. And so you
see this bouncing back and
forth. There was a story
about my mother. She had
driven one night from DC
to Pittsburgh because she was
mad at my sister who
was in college there. And
I think that drive was
like four hours. That's my
childhood memory. Let's go to
Google maps and like plot
it. The roads haven't changed
that much, right from the
late eighties to now in
terms of the highway system.
And so I could be
like pre fact checking myself,
using the web and using
our, you know, shared knowledge
basis and a cloud hosted
mapping. I wouldn't have been,
I would have to go
back to DC and walk
through my block again. And
this way I could do
it remotely. It was pretty
cool. It's fantastic. Yeah. Do
you think that this is
the, I feel like you're
on the cutting edge of
what people do with books.
Will this become the bare
minimum? Is this going to
be the new bar for
what a book looks like?
Partly. So I'm an extreme
case. And I would say,
you know, as any artists
or creator, you gotta have
to have some mind from
marketing it and thinking beyond
the raw material itself, how
do you hook in the
community? It doesn't mean you
give over your voice, but
is there a way to
do that? How do you
push the sales button? How
do you take advantage of
the interactive tools? That's going
to keep people interested because
that's the new bar. So
I wanted to push the
envelope and experiment with that.
I think there will be
people who don't do it,
so I'm not going to
prescribe it for everyone, but
somebody has got to be
thinking about it, even if
it's not the original author,
a Dane stupor band, or
what have you, it's going
to be the new minimum
because we're going to expect
more from our story. Right.
Fantastic. Well, thank you so
much for talking to me
today. Yeah. We'll add links
to all of the stuff
that we talked about and
you can pick up there.
Today's book how to be
black on Amazon as well
as on his website, which
is how as it is.
Cause there's little blackness in
all of us. This has
been another episode of Hanselminutes
and we'll see you again
next week.